Filtering streams is the process of identifying
unneeded or unwanted data and creating
a new data stream in which the data is not present.
Importantly, single streams or joined streams can be filtered.
You may choose to both join and filter streams all at the same time.
Filtering is a common operation.
It's most commonly used if you take a general data set
and make it more specifically tailored to a given audience.
For example, if we had a purchases stream with all purchases globally,
that might be far more information than our data clients actually need.
Instead, we might decide to ingest single global purchases stream and
then filter out any events that aren't related to
a specific department or a specific region.
We can repeat this for as many departments are regions as needed.
In the example you just saw,
we took the numbered events,
so 10, seven, and three,
sent them through Kafka,
and then the stream processor said,
"Reject any event with a value less than five."
So 10 and seven are both greater than five so they were left in the stream.
But three is less than five so we filtered it out.
Oftentimes, filters can be this simple.